# icaz2018.poster
PDF of poster and code for presentation at ICAZ Conference 2018 in Ankara, Turkey.
Title: Beyond Counting Sheep: an interdisciplinary review of faunal assemblages in the British pastoral landscape
Session: Mobile pastoralism through the interdisciplinary lens.
License: CC Attribution

Abstract: One of the many challenges in zooarchaeological research is to explore better methods of addressing the relationship between animal husbandry and cultural and environmental change. Intensification of wool production is typically evidenced by an increase in the relative abundance of sheep at the expense of cattle, and increased use of adult sheep with changes in mortality patterns. However, when applying quantitative methods of species abundance to describe pastoral systems, mixed-farming strategies that utilize many aspects of animal production can complicate the evaluation of herd structures and species predominance. To further explore how the intensification of sheep husbandry in relation to wool production is represented in the archaeological record, this project aims to provide reproducible analysis based on environmental, geographical, and temporal factors. The application of exploratory data analysis and computational archaeology with zooarchaeology provides a system of data management, quantitative analysis, and model-based testing for intra-site distribution studies, inter-site variability, and regional trend assessment, through consideration of individual assemblage data. Datasets from published assemblages are presented in case studies that move beyond descriptive approaches and data visualization based on derived metrics, towards interpretations that reject regional generalizations for pastoral systems and focus on trends based on the integration of faunal and environmental data with statistical analysis. Advancement in zooarchaeological methodology that considers synthesizing multidisciplinary data will assist in future collaboration within research teams, create new perspectives on site variability, and help further refine current understanding of past socio-ecological relationships.
